My guest today is Scott Nolan. Scott has
led a fascinating career. He was
employee number 35 at SpaceX helping
develop some of their critical early
systems. He then went on to more than a
decade investing at Founders Fund where
he invested in SpaceX and many other of
the defining companies of this
generation. More recently, he started a
company incubated at Founders Fund
called General Matter. The topic of
today's conversation is his time
investing at Founders Fund and more
recently his decision to build this
company full-time. General Matter is
attacking one of the most interesting
bottlenecks in the United States, the
enrichment of uranium to create power in
nuclear power plants. We don't do any of
that in the United States today. We've
outsourced it overseas for years. Scott
and General Matter are seeking to
reverse that through the enrichment of
uranium here in the United States. We
touch on all aspects of what he learned
both as an investor and already building
this company in its early years. Please
enjoy my conversation with Scott Nolan.
Scott, I think an interesting place to
begin our discussion is actually with a
a sort of worldview type question.
Which is how you figure out what to work
on. If I just plot your CV over time,
you worked at SpaceX very early on.
You've been critical to Founders Fund
success. Now you've started your own
business and are basically devoting your
time to that.
And even the path between those things
looks very interesting. Like when you
switch from one to another intrigues me.
And so I'm curious both from your
perspective and and maybe from the
Founders Fund perspective too since that
was a shaping experience for you, how
you think about this question of what to
work on and what to spend your time on.
My framework has always been just do
something that's useful. Do something
that you feel like you're making a real
contribution and using your talents to
make some type of positive impact. What
important problem is there that's not
going to get solved otherwise that
somehow I can contribute to?
And so
I think all three all three major things
I've done have have fit that in some
way.
Um
It's if we take them one at a time like
yes, SpaceX Founders Fund and now
General Matter. SpaceX I was, you know,
just an engineer coming out of
undergrad.
And
I had worked at Boeing during college,
just saw what the incumbent aerospace
industry was like, didn't want to work
in that, didn't believe it was going to
change anything.
And so
aerospace background, always want to
work on rockets, aircraft.
Asked myself
okay, what's the most exciting thing to
do? And it was it was I so want to be in
the industry. I know the incumbents are
not going to make an impact, but there's
this new company SpaceX that is going to
ultimately own the entire space launch
industry, which I believed even when it
was 30 people.
Um and so it was to me a no-brainer to
go work there right after college. I I
interned during college. I saw what it
was. It was like yeah, these guys are
going to win.
Um I want to be a part of that. So
and that was an industry that had
stagnated for decades.
Um nobody No incumbent was doing
anything interesting. They were all just
riding government cost-plus contracts.
The US assumed that space launch was
a nation-state capability that would
never be a commercially interesting
thing to do. And it just had to be
subsidized forever. And so the result
was cost-plus contracts,
you know, layers of some subcontractors
dozens deep.
Um
and no ability for anyone to like do
something really novel. And so it was
going to take a new company. So
that led me to SpaceX early on. And then
found my way to Founders Fund in in
2011. So I was actually at Stanford in
business school.
Um started in 2010.
Was quickly voted most likely to drop
out. I wanted to get to work. I just
wanted to do stuff.
And so I thought about dropping out and
actually the first or second month of
business school to join Square.
And so this one path was maybe go join
Square.
And uh Keith who was at Founders Fund
for a while
tried was the person trying to recruit
me to drop out and go to Square. In the
meantime, I met Peter.
Um, I was sitting in a on a class that
he was doing at the law school. I think
it was called technology
sovereignty and globalization. There was
many different readings. There was
things about theory of government, how
would technology change the power
dynamics around
you know, government versus industry.
And he convinced me to join his startup
in the venture capital space.
And the the basic premise was
VC needs innovation. The incumbents
won't do it. And circa 2005, this the
concept was founder-friendly. If you
looked at all the most successful
companies, they were founder-run all the
way
to the end. And so, the premise was
let's give founders back control of
their companies and unilaterally support
them in building that.
That was 2005 genesis of Founders Fund,
but by 2010 when I was talking to Peter,
2011,
it was more this contrarian thing of
what important companies is no one
funding and how can we be the capital
for that? And so, the the thing that I
focus on when I joined in 2011
was really
yeah, what set of companies are really
promising that people under appreciate?
And I had just come from SpaceX, which
was not yet in 2011 like appreciated.
Appreciated. Uh, 4 years later they were
landing rockets and it was obvious that
all that stuff was going to work from
the inside, but the whole world didn't
understand it yet. And so, my thesis was
hey, I think there's a huge set of
you know,
physical world companies,
hardware companies that could be really
valuable and this could span biotech,
computer chips, satellites, like space
launch,
transportation, infrastructure,
almost anything that was not digital and
that this was a huge opportunity area
that everybody was ignoring. And then
came across this problem of enrichment
of uranium in the the US's total lack of
capacity in the space,
which essentially forced me to go start
General Matter. We'll come back in in
great detail to General Matter. If you
think about the 11 or 12 years that you
were principally just investing,
in what ways did Peter most affect the
way that you think about things and and
and vice versa? There's like many layers
to this probably. Like, number one was
it was just avoiding trends, avoiding
the herd, thinking for yourself. That
was like probably layer one. The second
part was probably that like Peter always
took
whenever we looked at any companies,
a very orthogonal view to most people.
So, there would be like layers of
abstraction. Instead of just doing a
spreadsheet and trying to analyze this
investment, why don't we think about
like why are we even seeing this
investment? How should we think about
this investment from this like very
different perspective than everyone
else? And so,
sometimes there would be like layers of
abstraction that were many layers. And
you would end up with a really different
view on things. And so, it's like really
natural to just dive in and start trying
to understand the business, but trying
to develop a very different perspective
on it that would yield some alpha was
almost always the
the approach. And I think he probably
also thought at the time, you know, he I
think around 2010 it was all what's
like very contrarian, what is no one
investing in, what's underappreciated. I
feel like that was around the time that
he was talking a lot about
we'd made all this progress in the world
of
bits, but not in the world of atoms.
And you could be on your cell phone and
it was interesting and then you look
around and nothing's changed in 50
years.
Um and so, I think he was starting to
already thinking about this probably
even more than he was talking about and
probably thinking which, you know,
which companies are doing this well,
where would someone who could kind of
understand the business world
and the investing world and then also
the startup world come from? How do you
think you affected him? Some of our
hardware investments turned out to be
pretty good.
So, I think I think they exceeded all
expectations for everybody. So, like you
know, SpaceX
founders on first invested in in 2008
and then what it is today, I don't think
many people would have predicted. Like
maybe
maybe Elon could have seen it going to
this length. You know, the the ultimate
purpose is colonize Mars. So, inherently
it has to become the scale company to do
that.
But, I doubt anyone would have expected,
you know, this sort of outcome this
quickly. Maybe it's an obvious question,
but what is behind the avoid trends
concept? There's two layers of
competition.
Um so, the avoid competition thing was a
huge huge part of this. And so, like
that's definitely a lesson learned. But,
there's the competition piece is
typically understood as the company
level competition. And so, if there's a
trend, inherently you have many
companies going after the same trend.
You're going to have new entrants.
It's become a thing. It's not about one
company, it's about the theme. And if
there's a theme that's not about one
company, then it's about many companies.
And so, you know, how is it not the case
that the compete profits down to
economic equilibrium of perfect perfect
competition? So, there's that piece of
avoid a trend for that reason. But, then
layer two is avoid if there's a trend,
then probably many investors are looking
at it and they're pricing it up. And
then how is this not like where's
where's your advantage?
And so, you want to avoid competition on
both fronts. This notion of finding
something that is not being worked on or
is under appreciated,
you made so many investments in
companies where this was a thing. What
are the common through lines or
attributes of something that that isn't
being worked on, but is important? Like
that that quadrant in the two by two.
Like is or isn't important, is or isn't
being worked on. Isn't important not
being worked on is like the place you
hunted?
What what's what are the typical causes
behind that being the case? Cuz it
doesn't really make sense that something
doesn't get worked on if it's really
important.
>> Unfortunately, or for better or worse,
they lead you to
they can draw you into a
a potentially brute-force sort of
approach. Like, first few years at
Founders Fund, I'm looking for great
founders, I'm looking for under-explored
ideas.
It's just lots and lots of meetings. And
so, from the investor perspective,
unless you have things that you're into
that you think are under-appreciated by
the world and you've maybe been really
excited about them for a really long
time and why does no one think about
this? And maybe it's this like idea in
your head that you just keep digging on
and maybe someday you find a company
that's that's actually an expression of
that trade, then it's just meeting a lot
of people and trying to find what's
interesting and what sounds really
different and what makes sense.
And so, the from the investor
perspective, the attributes are
something like, "Hey, you meet a
founder, they seem really smart, they're
talking about this thing no one's really
talking about. They're telling you why
everyone who's thought about this
problem either thinks it's impossible or
they're all going about it in the
completely wrong way. And if you,
you know, adjust and come at it from a
different point of view,
it results in a really different
solution that has really different
business characteristics. When you meet
a founder like that who's working on
something like this, usually they're not
just going to give you superficial
answers to
to convince you to give them money.
The conversations with great companies
like that always felt more like, "This
person is really into this thing for
some reason and when I ask them a
question, they're not just giving me an
answer and trying to bounce back to the
surface."
They're like, "Here's the answer. Here's
the next question you're going to ask,
and let's take you all the way down the
rabbit hole." So, they like showing you
around the space. That's how it felt
from the investor seat.
If you think about what are the
attributes
of industries where this is the case, I
think a huge
portion of them
are going to be industries that
somehow just stagnated.
And I think the the thing that's most
linked to stagnation
is
probably being a cost-plus industry,
where there's very little incentive for
progress,
not much incentive to to bring the cost
structure down, and therefore you end up
with this like this fixed market size
that never takes off because
um you just gets kind of in a stalemate,
where all the companies maybe get to
like oligopoly status.
The equation for max profits is just
make pricing high enough to the breaking
point, collect your cost-plus revenue
and your margins, and then it never
becomes a really compelling thing. So,
like space launch, for example, to some
extent,
defense, which you see with the Anduril
trying to break that.
Um to some extent infrastructure, like
the Boring Company, this is like their
their prime thesis.
Um so, yeah, I think I think incumbent
stagnated oligopolistic cost-plus
industries are are just prime for this.
Most software companies try to maximize
your time on their app to juice
engagement. Ramp does the exact
opposite. Ramp understands that no one
wants to spend hours filing expense
reports, reviewing expense reports, and
checking for policy violations. So, they
built their tools to give that time
back, using AI to automate 85% of
expense reviews with 99% accuracy. And
since Ramp saves companies 5%, it's no
wonder that Shopify runs on Ramp, Stripe
runs on Ramp, and my business does, too.
To see what happens when you eliminate
the busy work, check out
ramp.com/invest.
OpenAI, Cursor, Anthropic, Perplexity,
and Vercel all have something in common.
They all use WorkOS. And here's why: to
achieve enterprise adoption at scale,
you have to deliver on core
capabilities, like SSO, SCIM, RBAC, and
audit logs. That's where WorkOS comes
in. Instead of spending months building
these mission-critical capabilities
yourself, you can just use WorkOS APIs
to gain all of them on day zero. That's
why so many of the top AI teams you hear
about already run on WorkOS. WorkOS is
the fastest way to become enterprise
ready and stay focused on what matters
most, your product. Visit workos.com to
get started.
Every investor should know about Rogo
because Rogo AI's platform is not just
another generic chatbot. Instead, it was
designed to support how Wall Street
bankers and investors actually work,
from sourcing diligence and modeling to
turning analysis into deliverables. For
me, three key things differentiate Rogo.
First, it connects directly to your
system so it can work with your actual
data. Second, it understands your
workflows, how work really happens
across a deal or an investment. And
third, it runs end to end and produces
real outputs the way the best people do,
auditable spreadsheets, investment
memos, diligence materials, and slide
decks that match your standards. This
all comes from the fact that Rogo is
built by finance professionals for
finance professionals. And it's already
being adopted by some of the most
demanding institutions in the world. To
learn more, visit rogo.ai/invest.
If if if forced to go beyond that
definition, there's only so many of
those, right?
>> And you've probably invested in
companies effectively attacking each
category, each subcategory. A lot of
those doing extraordinarily well.
What else would you say? Like Like
there's lots of great founders on
investments that weren't in cost-plus
industries or something. What would be
What would I find if I went digging on
this same thread there? Airbnb is a
classic huge example.
>> Yeah. Um
when Founders Fund invested, it was
still crossing from
kind of a weird backpacking, couch
surfing, like air mattress in someone's
living room to to what it is today.
And so, yeah, not that many people were
that interested in sleeping on air
mattresses in people's houses, but that
was, you know, something that that that
team was really into. And how do we
turn this into something much larger
where people can meet each other and
have like a really authentic experience
when going somewhere instead of just
staying in a hotel. Like that wasn't
something many people were thinking
about. And yet when you actually looked
at it you realized how big the market
could be and if they could cross over to
a mainstream thing it could be huge.
That's one example. Sean Parker was on
the Founders Fund team right when I
joined.
And
led the Spotify investment.
And the internal memo or thread on the
Spotify investment was just so well
reasoned.
And it was because of this history of
like understanding music and
doing the Napster thing and then years
and years of just trying to find the
right company that had the was taking
the right formula. I think you know, led
to that and led to him seeing the
potential of Spotify and why it was the
perfect geography to start in and the
perfect licensing strategy. And so I
think it's often just like a really deep
interest in something that's of a
personal interest to a founder and
they're just they believe it should
exist. They believe there should be some
way to solve this.
And everyone's tried done it the wrong
way and here's the right way.
And I think sometimes people are sitting
with those ideas for
5 or 10 years. Across all the meetings
you did, first meetings,
how did you improve at conducting that
meeting to figure out if this was the
type of person and problem that you
could get interested in? It probably
wasn't even the meeting itself. It was
probably just trusting your judgment
more. On day one it was just okay, I
don't know anything.
I'm going to take a lot of meetings.
Some of these seem good, some seem not
so good, but we we need to do the work
cuz what do I know?
I think
early on the intuition was like
all that you had to go on and it was and
I think it's usually correct.
And then
and then you know, I get probably a
little bit better at the job in the next
couple of years.
Get better at trying to analyze things,
understand it.
That might actually lead you astray, I
think.
Because then you start The analytics
might
>> doing the analysis.
Um when you kind of already know. Like
oh, I guess we should do the work.
But you kind of already know which ones
you like. And in fact,
you should just concentrate into the
fewest number of companies possible.
And don't dilute your average returns by
indexing.
And then over time, get better at asking
the right questions to like help harness
the intuition or like okay, my gut's
telling me
we should dig into this. Could you think
of a single investment that
your gut was not flashing yes almost
immediately that you like worked your
way to get there
and did it? Airbnb was one of these. We
did a lot of work on it.
Um at the time,
so Founders Fund did a small angel check
early on.
And then did a much bigger check
in the next round. And so at the angel
check, it was still the
very informal,
you know, air mattresses, like
I think there had been something where
some guest completely destroyed a home
and there was a whole bunch of
controversy around that.
And then the company took a hard stance
on that and said, "We will reimburse the
hosts and we are professionalizing
this."
And I think that was like maybe the
moment that
you could tell it was going to go
mainstream. And then Founders Fund made
a huge investment.
But if you just look back at the past,
you might say, "Oh, there's,
you know, this seems like a niche
thing."
But if you did the work, you could see a
bunch of different trends. Like you
could see
it was the the demographics were
shifting to slightly older crowd, not
just backpackers out of college like
some people had perceived.
Um the market share in different markets
was increasing a lot.
And so we actually looked at we did the
work. We looked at like every single
market. Um sliced market share,
marketing spend, and you could see like
all these markets that they were in,
they were just taking share and becoming
the dominant dominant thing. So,
you analyze the data and it was like
they're winning. Like this is it's over.
They're going to win. There's two other
components of the no competition idea.
One is evaluation and price you have to
pay and the second is um like capital
intensity. You've invested in lots of
stuff that requires lots of money to get
the thing up and running and to revenue
and to profitability. Curious how how
you learned about those two dimensions
of earning higher returns. That did low
competition bring lower entry prices on
average and did is that something you
cared about much once you found someone
that was doing one of these things and
then also how you think about you know,
the the amount of capital that you would
have to put into the company to make it
work. Yeah, the the low competition
thing typically would be associated with
lower valuations, but I think that's
trying to find value deals in venture is
dumb idea. It's not the right plan. Like
in
maybe if you have a very small fund
and you can pick up some interesting
you know, IP or hey, this company maybe
will never be that huge, but this is a
really good deal and you look at
multiples and stuff and
you know, it starts to look a little bit
more like PE or something.
>> Yeah. Um I think that can
that could probably be okay, but for
true venture, I think it's dangerous
because
yeah, either it says something about the
company's ability to raise capital that
they're unable to at
market prices.
And unless this is like the last round
that they need to raise or they really
are going to be a capital efficient
business, that's probably
a risky thing. I mean, maybe the team is
incredible at debt financing, but
terrible at venture financing and so
they're going to switch to debt and it's
going to be amazing. Like
you could you could imagine a situation
like that, but typically
if you're meeting a company
and it's a crazy
you know, value deal, it's probably just
not going to end up being that good is
is what I've observed empirically. Do
you think if we did an analysis of the
actual dollars deployed by Founders Fund
that more of the dollars would have been
deployed once the company was already
popular? Yeah, that may be the case. If
you look at actual dollars deployed,
it's probably more
you know, the whole concentrated into
the winners strategy. Yeah. I think the
way that that can still be a good
strategy even if the company's popular
is A, it's popular but not as popular as
it will be.
Or B, this idea that up rounds
you know, it's almost like anchoring on
the past versus looking to the future.
Peter has said this a bunch of times and
has like guided the Founders Fund team
to think this way.
Uh certainly more in the like it was
more talked about in the early 2010s but
if you've got a company
that was like growing steadily but then
there's a big up round
it's probably the case that that up
round is not even enough up.
That if it's like a 2x up round, maybe
it should be a 4x up round.
>> going on there? There's that famous
quote of his which is the steeper the up
round the greater the undervaluation.
So, so what is what is actually
happening that makes that true? Yeah,
people are just anchoring on the past or
they're like, "Oh, last round was this.
I guess it should be reasonable compared
to last round price."
And then in reality like okay, all that
matters is next round price. How do we
make sure the next round's an up round?
Like what are the what are the catalysts
going to be for further increases?
Um and so yeah, you don't get paid as an
investor based on
you know, how close you were to last
round's price. It's it's ultimately
against exit price.
But the only thing you have to go off of
that's
actual data or empirical is the past.
And so people are much more anchored on
that. What have you learned about how
much to be in love with the problem
itself? This is a a good excuse to talk
about General Matter, too. Like are you
inherently fascinated by and love with
uranium enrichment or is there some
other big thing going on behind the
scenes? And I'm curious if you think
about all these founders you backed.
My guess is most of them were deeply
passionate about the domain cuz they had
this thing where they could go down the
rabbit hole or whatever.
How much does passion matter in
selection of founders? From the investor
seat, I don't think you want to be in
love with an idea. I think that's a
risky thing.
>> Yeah. Cuz then you're going to try and
find a way to express that by investing
and
you're going to maybe make some
compromises on the team because you know
this idea is just so good it's time has
come.
But then if the team isn't there
it you know, 90% of the time it doesn't
work.
And then there's a whole thing of like
horse and jockey, can you swap out the
team? But the whole Founders Fund thesis
was always
no, you need the founder to run the
company to have this vision and to see
it through.
And so
from the investor side, I think being in
love with an idea is really dangerous
and it can cause you to make all sorts
of compromises that come back to haunt
you.
And it can cause you to put good money
after bad despite the writing on the
wall. But I think on the company side
you have to be in love with the idea.
Yeah, it's like not that rational to
start a company. There's a lot easier
like more comfortable ways to make money
if that's the goal.
So it's got to be about what the company
is doing specifically. I think smart
people who want to make money like
there's so many good jobs in the finance
world for that or
uh people who just want to build there's
lots of places you can build, but if you
want to actually start a company it
better be something that you're really
passionate about or you think that the
problem is really important. So for me
now en- enriching uranium never
never was something I was
specifically excited about. I was always
into nuclear energy. I always thought
that this was a no-brainer. Probably the
two things from sci-fi from like the
'60s
was always the two industries we were
supposed to have.
Not just from sci-fi, but like what our
country thought was
we're going to be going to space and
we're going to be doing things in space
and we're obviously going to have
nuclear energy. Like we went from
burning wood
to chemical bonds and now
atomic energy was like clearly so much
more energy dense and powerful and
and should be lower cost.
So the those were always things I was
excited about. Never had a specific
interest in uranium enrichment, but then
through the course of investing in
Founders Fund
went from 2010 just looking at all sorts
of different hardware companies. First
investment I ever made was a satellite
company, Planet Labs. Then did a lot of
different things that were outside of
pure software. Last couple years at
Founders Fund drifted back towards
almost pure hardware by the end and then
really energy
where we invested in Crusoe Energy and
understood the whole stranded supply
of flare gas and what could you do with
that?
And then invested in company called
Radiant which was the inverse stranded
demand. How could you serve that demand?
Maybe you could serve it with a small
microreactor.
Even if that microreactor's output was
expensive, the stranded demand had to
pay crazy rates anyway for diesel
generators in a remote Alaskan village
for example or an army base.
And so that's a good starting point
fitting the whole Founders Fund thesis
of start with a really small market and
grow into a bigger market. Like don't
don't worry about your TAM, worry about
owning that market and then grow from
there.
And so
yeah, my path to understanding
the bottlenecks in nuclear energy was
having invested in Radiant, having met
so many other advanced reactor companies
along the way.
And then all of them said the exact same
thing. We want, you know, we're going to
make nuclear affordable, we're going to
make it scalable.
We're going to take this from huge
construction projects to factory built.
And yet the one thing that's the hardest
is not licensing. Everyone thinks the
NRC is impossible to get through, but
no, it's not that. They told us it's
actually we cannot get the fuel. The
fuel comes from Russia, only Russia
makes it. We have to import it.
Um that's quite challenging and this was
even pre-Russia ban.
And we just need some source of fuel.
And so I spent all of 2023 looking into
this
trying to understand, okay, of the five
steps of making fuel, which one what's
stopping is it all of them? Is it is it
there's not enough uranium? Is it
something about the process? And it was
the enrichment step.
And so
looked at trying to find a company in
the enrichment step to debottleneck
nuclear and to actually get the nuclear
future that we want and could not find
anything for an entire year and then
finally decided if this is going to
exist, it's got to be a new company.
It's not an incumbent, it's not a
government, it needs to be a new private
company and so this was the important
company that nobody was building. This
was the important problem nobody was
solving that I could somehow actually
contribute to. In all the work you did,
what did you learn about the thing you
alluded to earlier, which is the
relationship between governments and
technology? Like that so much of the
history of technology in the US was
actually military rooted. Like so much
of what we developed was for a military
purpose and then became commercial.
And so the two seem like they have
always been deeply intertwined,
technology and governments.
Curious what you learned about that
history, what surprised you, what
interested you. Of course, it's relevant
for what you're doing now. Yeah, what
have you what have you learned about
governments and and tech? My experience
through SpaceX
was just the government wants to work
with private industry and wants to solve
problems like
um at SpaceX I worked on the engine
systems under Tom Mueller and did a lot
of the structural thermal work on those
and help help make sure that they would
stand up to the environments and
everything
uh and
be low cost and high performance. That's
ultimately what we were optimizing for.
And then once those engine systems were
were working really well, I moved over
to the Dragon capsule.
And on Dragon we were on the NASA COTS
program, Commercial Orbital
Transportation Services.
And it was a multi-hundred million
dollar program
to bring back
uh two things, capability of launch to
space station and then a
first a cargo vehicle and then it
ultimately a crewed crewed vehicle that
could dock with the space station.
And so the last year or two I was there
was really focused on Dragon and working
very closely with NASA
because we were going to go dock with I
guess the most expensive
the most expensive asset mankind had
ever developed. And so the last thing
anybody wants is any sort of issue with
a private company's cargo capsule
docking with the space station either
crashing into it or something. Yeah,
like collision but then you would think
collision then yes that's an issue but
the way orbits work it's actually
there's some ability to avoid it even if
things are
uh
off track.
The harder thing to really get a handle
on was things like thermal and pressure
and okay you've got this vehicle and it
has solar panels and what's the heating
on the vehicle and what thermal load is
that driving back to the space station
and can that handle it? So there are all
these interface requirements.
And so we were working closely with
NASA on those and ultimately these were
you know incredibly smart people who
believed in space who had been working
at NASA for decades in cases be you know
despite not a ton of growth in in space
activity. They were there because they
believed it and they loved it and the
opportunity to work with a company to
like
okay we have the space station
we have this program. How do we get you
guys to the next step on the milestones?
How do we collaborate to like make sure
this is safe but that it actually
happens?
Super collaborative uh very positive and
I so I think
my takeaway was in in industries where
you have true believers who are in the
government agencies and who have been
doing this for a long time. They're
there because they want it to happen and
there's a lot of
openness and excitement to working
together if
if the company is
is credible and is you know cares as
much about safety and and performance as
the agency does.
>> In your operating time at SpaceX, what
did you learn about making great things
quickly? Great things that work quickly.
I think there's all the classic things
like there's the Elon algorithm at this
point. I don't think it was explicit
back then. It was just
hey, we have to get this rocket, you
know, launched. Let's make sure it
works. Let's not
you know, over optimize or have analysis
paralysis. Just
define what the goal is.
Come up with a good solution.
This looks like a good solution. That's
a good plan. Let's run with it.
Let's not deliberate for months and
months and months over things. Let's
just decide and move forward. Then if
we're wrong, we can always go back cuz
there was, you know, extensive testing
along the way.
So, it's really
um use good engineering principles,
think from first principles, move fast,
get it to 90 95% 999%.
Um we can and it's like get operational
and you can make it better later.
But if we just never launch, if we never
get operational,
this isn't going to work. One of the
things that's most interesting to me
today is this whole learning by doing
thing which has now been carefully
studied that it's in the iterations that
you gather lots of your learnings and
there's like a a literal predictable
curve to these things and that we've
outsourced so much of this, especially
in manufacturing, to overseas.
And so it's not that we do innovation
and someone else does manufacturing.
It's more that the manufacturing creates
a lot of the innovation.
And I'm I'm curious how important you
think that is in the next, you know,
decade or two here in the US. Obviously,
you're doing something that got shipped
over to Russia and now we're trying to
bring it back.
Curious for you to say a little bit more
about like the broader effort to bring
more of that stuff back onto our own
shores.
Yeah, I think there's the onshoring
piece, but it's it's maybe even simpler
as just vertical integration. So,
even domestically, you have, you know,
companies in the nuclear space, the
aerospace industry, like defense,
many different sectors where
subcontracting is the norm.
And
you know, you're going to subcontract a
subsystem to somebody who subcontracts a
component, and then that component has
different inputs and
they subcontract that all the way down.
I think in aerospace and at the SpaceX
days, it was it was like, "Oh, there's
30 layers of subcontractors in this one
system somehow." I think was the case
from the space shuttle. Some crazy
number of of subcontractors.
And then in the nuclear space recently,
there was there was one analyst call
where a company was
bragging about having something like 900
subcontractors and so many
that they needed regional organizers of
the subcontractors.
And on one hand, it's like, okay,
clearly what you're doing is really
complicated then and there's
deep barriers to entry, but
every one of those interfaces that
crosses another company
is typically a fixed interface that's
not going to move very quickly.
And so, you have to treat it as fixed.
And so, everyone's designing their
individual piece against preconceived
interface requirements.
And you end up with a really
um calcified architecture of your
system. This is just at the system
design level.
Um and you can't optimize across layers
for the overall goal. Now, if you bring
all that in-house and don't have a lot
of subcontractors, you can actually as
an engineering team optimize with every
iteration
trade-off interface requirements. Hey,
this thing that you asked of me, you
know, over in the electrical team, for
me, the mechanical team is going to be
really, really hard. Do you mind giving
me a little bit of breathing room on
that and I'll I'm going to make it up
somewhere else. And so, you can have
those conversations much more easily
when two people are sitting side by side
at a desk
than when you have two separate
companies like, you know, across the
country. And so, at a minimum, I think
you need to pull the engineering
together and vertically integrate and
just sign up for doing more of the
engineering yourself and not outsource
it.
And then part two is the manufacturing.
And so,
that's just on the design side. If
you're actually going to make the thing
and you're trying to design for
manufacturing,
well, then maybe you want your
manufacturing actually co-located with
engineering. And so that's what all of
the great hardware companies are now
doing is you at least have your first of
a kind manufacturing co-located with
engineering
under the same roof and you you
basically talk it out of like here's why
this thing that you just designed is
hard for me to make. If you can make it
this way, then I don't I don't need a
six-axis CNC. I can use this with a
laser laser cutter and make this part.
We're going to get, you know, 10x
throughput at 1/10 the cost.
And so
yeah, I think you need to at a minimum
put your first of a kind manufacturing
co-located with engineering.
And then better yet
uh small-scale manufacturing, mid-scale
manufacturing, maybe a large-scale you
can push it somewhere else and go to a
low lower cost center
as opposed to like Southern California
where so many of these companies are.
But I think it's mandatory. You've got
to bring it all together.
What have you learned about uh the role
that energy plays in a civilization or a
society? Like it it it's it's it's funny
like we didn't really talk about energy
for a long time. I think like the per
capita growth of, you know, energy was
kind of flat for couple of decades prior
prior to this recent surge because of AI
and data centers and everything. What is
your framework for thinking about the
role of energy kind of in general and
then we'll get into the specifics of
what you're doing? There's like two of
my favorite charts around this topic.
One is uh GDP per capita versus
energy consumption per capita.
And it's almost like the R-squared on it
is,
you know, probably like certainly over
0.8.
You you cluster every country on Earth.
You plot GDP per capita. You plot energy
consumption per capita. And there's a
very obvious line through through them.
There's outliers, but it's it's just so
predictive.
Um and so it's it is the thing. Like
energy use and production is the
ultimate proxy for
human prosperity, for economic activity,
for all these things. This is This has
been I think pretty well understood for
a while, but completely under discussed.
And then you look at the US. This is
This is like the other chart I always
look at.
Is we grew our grid for a long time, and
then starting around the '90s,
essentially no growth until today. China
was growing a long time, like 2010, we
were equal, neck and neck.
I think this year they now uh will be
triple S on total energy production. And
so the US just needs to do something if
it wants to continue to be relevant
economically. You need more energy
production if you want to grow your
economy.
And I think just purely outsourcing
stuff overseas just gives up capability,
especially as it gets like new
manufacturing techniques, um how to
scale manufacturing rapidly,
all these things that are so so
important. How do you think the
causality runs? One What like One idea
could be, okay, if I just create if
China surpasses us on a per capita
basis, and let's say they get to double.
Like is there some rule of the way
things work that will just mean they'll
find ways to use that energy in some way
that raises GDP per capita and drives
all this progress? Or Or is Or is the
causality the other direction? Like as
GDP rises, or we find new innovations,
like energy catches up to rise to meet
that demand or something? I It It's It's
curious to imagine like if I just
air-dropped I don't know,
three times the US capacity of uh uh per
capita capacity of energy on some random
country, would that country necessarily
become prosperous? The whole argument
from the '90s almost till 2020 was
something like
even if it would increase the economy,
would you want to? So, okay, do I want
to have, you know, dozens of aluminum
smelting facilities in my country, or is
that better done overseas, and it's, you
know, low margin and not interesting and
not going to not going to accelerate
your economy and why do you have people
working on that when they can be in the
services world and do more interesting
things. Certainly that was an argument,
but I think we're seeing it right now
what happens when you don't
when you're not proactive about it, when
you don't have the capability even of
expanding rapidly and and so it's you
don't want to be caught completely
flat-footed when there's a large demand
for
energy production and now here we have
it with AI and data centers and
you look at some of these curves and
looks like data centers can consume if
they were allowed to the entire grid by
2030 at this growth rate and so I think
in theory
you would say energy production will
come online as we need it.
But then in practice if you don't
develop it, you may bias yourself
towards other things because
well, our energy costs are kind of high
or our energy cost is higher than other
countries because we're tighter on
supply.
And they've over built and they're
subsidizing, but then they take those
industries. And then they take the the
front of the supply chain and just start
marching forward to where they can
dictate a lot of different different
things about the economy.
Um so
yeah, I I I think that was the classic
view is like
economies are efficient, markets are
efficient. If there's a demand for
energy, we will bring it online when we
need to.
But physical world stuff has a timeline
with it and then in the US it can be
very hard to get stuff permitted to go
do things.
And so when there's unexpected demand
that's very rapid in its increase, you
might be caught completely off guard
which I think is
is the situation in the US now with data
centers and then scrambling to find
power and where
a few years ago if you looked at a data
center and and you thought, okay, where
are they going to place it? The answer
was they'll put the data center where
there's stranded power.
Stranded wind in West Texas, stranded
flare gas in South Dakota, North Dakota.
Um and now those stranded assets are
gone and now it's
time to build new capacity and data
centers are
completely backed up on getting natural
gas turbines and nuclear takes a few
years to get installed. So, I think just
from a
energy stability economic robustness
point of view, you want to have
capabilities and at least the ability to
to stand those up as you need to. As
your business scales up, everything gets
more complex, especially your compliance
and security needs. With so many tools
offering band-aids and patches, it's
unfortunately far too easy for something
to slip through the cracks. Fortunately,
Vanta is a powerful tool designed to
simplify and automate your security work
and deliver a single source of truth for
compliance and risk. There's a reason
that Ramp, Cursor, and Snowflake all use
Vanta. It frees them to focus on
building amazing differentiated
products, knowing that compliance and
security are under control. Learn more
at vanta.com/invest.
I know firsthand how complex the tech
stack is for asset management firms. And
seemingly every new tool and data source
makes the problem even worse, adding
more complexity, more headcount, and
more risk. Ridgeline offers a better way
forward, one unified platform that
automates away the complexity across
portfolio accounting, reconciliation,
reporting, trading, compliance, and
more, all at scale. Ridgeline is
revolutionizing investment management,
helping ambitious firms scale faster,
operate smarter, and stay ahead of the
curve. See what Ridgeline can unlock for
your firm. Schedule a demo at
ridgeline.ai.
Obviously, you're doing something about
it, but how do you feel about the state
of things overall? And the state of
energy in the United States overall,
both state and direction. The state's
been fine until now and then the
direction's completely flat. So, to me
the the issue is that we have not
increased at all in decades on the
supply side. So, the direction don't
feel great. The state, I wish we had
more. I wish we were not 1/3 of China.
Um, I think we could be be a lot more
things if energy was not just abundant,
but cheap.
And so, yeah, just making more high-cost
energy will also won't bring back
certain industries. It won't
cause us to
start doing things we used to do.
You think energy is the bottleneck to us
bringing back some of these industries
that have left, or is it more labor? I
think the labor is actually the one
that's probably the most responsive.
Like, if there's really compelling jobs
in a in a field, people will will shift
over to that.
>> Yeah.
Um like the classic one the last couple
years has been electricians. You know,
Right. Massively under supplied.
Massively under supplied, can't get
enough to build all the data centers.
They're commanding like very high great
wages. You know, can make more than
people who went and got a master's.
Yeah. Yeah, it's like an incredible
career. And now you're probably going to
get a lot of people shifting into it.
Um so, I think those I think labor
responds. It probably takes a few years,
but it's faster than building
infrastructure. And so, infrastructure
is probably the bottleneck. And then, is
it just energy? Probably not just
energy. Probably permitting.
Um can take a while. And so,
yeah, I think I think there's a bunch of
different bottlenecks to getting things
online.
>> Why do you believe in nuclear? Why that
specifically? If you look statistically,
it's always been the safest, cleanest
base load. So, I think for the economy,
what you really want is base load. Base
load meaning always on? Always on.
Very reliable supply of electricity, not
intermittent, but something you can
actually design an industrial process
around as the foundation of the economy.
Even data centers want base load. And
so,
solar with enough storage could be base
load, but typically it's not anywhere
near that amount of storage. Usually
solar is
more intermittent, more for peak
shaving. So, if you really want base
load, if you want something that
businesses and industry can rely on,
it has to be on almost all the time. You
need it to be
highly reliable. And so, nuclear is the
most reliable.
Um so, you check the base load box.
People only in the last
10-20 years have started caring about
climate as much as, you know, even
remotely as much as they do now.
And if you care about climate, I think
maybe you care about carbon. You
probably also care about particulate.
And nuclear is the cleanest by far on
these dimensions. So on the
environmental side, nuclear wins for
base load. And then the safety side,
this is the part that people think, you
know, they're they question.
The safety side, it's the safest by far
of base load, too. You have
you know, you have a fossil fuel plant
that has known impact on
human well-being from
from emissions.
And nuclear has none of the carbon
emissions and
there have been high-profile
accidents with nuclear. You think of
Chernobyl, Three Mile Island, Fukushima.
Um
but the actual
risk associated with nuclear, despite
those high-profile incidents, is still
far, far lower than any other form of
base load energy.
And so it's like, okay, if you ask me
what's the safest, cleanest form of base
load, nuclear, absolutely.
Why do I believe in nuclear? I think
those things are important.
Okay, what about cost?
How does it stack up on cost?
And this is the piece that I think is
like where it gets really exciting to
where
over time we did less and less and less
nuclear, probably starting in the '70s.
And you see the cost of nuclear going up
as we do less of it. And you look at
where the cost of nuclear is today and
it's it's more than fossil fuels. It's
like, okay, unless you really care about
safety, which is pretty acceptable from
all forms,
um and or you really care about carbon
emissions, is it really worth it? Are
you really going to do nuclear when it
can take 10 years, 15 years to build a
reactor?
And they can be double the expected
budget. Like that's really hard for a
utility to stand up to and say, yeah, I
want to do more of this.
Um they need to bring
cost down for ratepayers. They need to
have predictability in when they're
going to bring capacity online.
So, on those dimensions, nuclear has not
been the best. It's not highly
responsive new energy generation. And it
hasn't been the lowest cost. So,
you say, "Okay, why why care about
nuclear?" It's because on on first
principles, it should be one of the
lowest cost.
Um you've got
much more powerful physics,
much potentially smaller
uh reactors outputting a lot of energy.
Like you look at a pellet of
a pellet of nuclear
uh fuel
and the amount of coal that that's
equivalent to is like a ton of coal.
And so, I can take all this all this
stuff, all this space,
and package it in so much smaller. I
don't need as much material for my
reactor.
I'm not going to be going through as
much mined product. Like
it's just an order magnitude different.
And so, on on first principles, nuclear
should be an extremely affordable thing.
Potentially much more affordable than
than fossil fuels. Now, it has not been
at all,
but that's the goal. And so, now you see
this whole wave of advanced reactors
trying to make that true on the reactor
side, and then we're trying to do it on
the fuel side.
Can you create a taxonomy of the
advanced reactors? Like what what kinds
of approaches are being tried? I think
everyone thinks of nuclear as the you
know, the massive the massive kind of
plants and the stacks that they're used
to seeing pictures of and are very
evocative. And it's sort of been that
same way for a long time. They cost $10
billion to make or something. What are
the things being tried? On the reactor
side, yeah, everyone thinks of the
cooling towers.
You have cooling towers in other
industrial processes, too. Um but
everyone thinks of the cooling tower,
which all it is
is steam cooling off, hot water cooling
off so that it can be reused as a cool
as a coolant at the start of the cycle.
Um so, lots of industrial processes do
that.
Uh but nuclear is known for it. That's
typically about a gigawatt scale
reactor. Often in the US uh an AP1000
Westinghouse gigawatt scale reactor
design,
which
we can get into the technical like
technical of what type of coolant they
use and what type of fuel, which might
be interesting, but the thing to think
about
in in my mind is
that's a big reactor. That's a gigawatt
scale.
I think the interesting buckets are
around the size cuz they link to
applications and markets. And that's
grid. So, you want to go battle it out
on the grid, you need gigawatt scale
because it moves the needle on the grid
and you're getting the scale that can
bring your cost down as low as possible.
Um at least for now and that's that's a
good format.
On the other end of the spectrum, you
have micro reactors where you're saying
there's a stranded community that's
doing diesel generators.
This is both bad for the environment and
not that cheap. We can beat them on cost
and so you go micro reactor. Think yeah,
1 megawatt scale, not gigawatt,
megawatt.
And then you have the middle, which is
100 to 300 total megawatts, SMR.
Where SMR is small modular reactor.
And all three buckets have different
approaches on the technology side.
Um but I think all three are going to be
important and so if if
if gigawatt scale is for the grid and
megawatt scale is for remote communities
or
you know, government installations, then
the middle scale I think is going to
find its niche behind the meter with
data centers over the next 5 to 10
years. Where where one unit could be
dedicated to one data center, like a one
like a sort of something that doesn't
interrupt the cost that I'm paying as a
rate payer in whatever district I'm in,
even if there's a data center there,
like something that's more cordoned off.
>> Yeah, exactly. So, think of it as like
the ultimate behind the meter thing is
just an island. Imagine a fence around a
few hundred acres, you got a data center
and you've got its nuclear power plant
there or whatever other form that they
might have, like peaker plants, natural
gas,
turbines, maybe even solar in some
cases. Okay, that's all cordoned off. It
does not even touch the grid. It's not
impacting the grid. It's not doing
anything to the communities like rate
costs. Completely separate. I actually
think there's a huge opportunity to
improve communities through this. If you
have a data center putting billions into
a data like
both the compute and the power
production,
let's say they're even 50/50 on power
production and compute.
Okay, we can we increase that power
production 10%?
Which is only a 5% project increase.
And bring, in the case of a gigawatt
sort of
data center, bring an extra 100
megawatts to a community. That's huge.
That would plummet
utility prices for that community. So,
I think at a minimum we're going to see
people
going behind the meter or not
disconnected from the grid.
And ideally we see them actually feeding
the grid and feeding base load. That
reminds me of your BYOE Yeah.
>> concept. Maybe just spell that out a
little more for the audience.
>> was the concept, hey, we're doing all
this investment in the grid for the
first time in decades.
Private companies are making the
investment. They will make the
investment with bringing their own
power, bring their own energy, BYOE. And
they're going to be doing that
investment anyway.
Their biggest worry is probably
something like, will I be allowed to
build this data center in this
community? Over the last year, I think
that's been the you know, the start of a
discussion.
And
if they want to get to the right answer
on that, and they can tell a community,
hey, we're going to be over here on this
unused land.
And are you okay with us being here and
running a bunch of compute and
net
uh being net positive to your grid. Can
we just plug in and give you some extra
power in return for inviting us to be a
neighbor?
I to me that's a complete no-brainer for
everybody. At a slight cost increase
during a time when
you know, hyperscalers building data
centers
are all about speed to power and they
want to be online as fast as possible
because this is the contest to who can
get to the greatest scale first.
That is a very low cost compared to the
advantage of deploying quickly in a
community and being invited there versus
being rebuffed. Right. So, I think total
no-brainer and the modern data centers
can do completely closed-loop cooling.
So, the water issue is not an issue.
It's really just this power thing. What
would be the explanation for these new
advanced reactors ultimately not
working? Like what what what keeps you
up at night? Cuz this is kind of out of
your control. You're not designing these
advanced reactors yourself. You're
you're helping them achieve their
mission.
But they need to be successful. What
what do you think, if you had to
handicap the reasons why they might not
be
are the most likely? I'd say number one
is they don't have fuel to operate.
That's definitely a
>> Solve that problem. That's a that's a
show showstopper. So, we're trying to
eliminate that risk. And then part two
is they're too expensive. I think the
physics will work. I don't think
anyone's too worried about that. You
have dozens of incredible companies with
great engineers who are trying to solve
the advanced reactor uh problem
and
really go at and typically they'll pick
a form factor that is of the right size
to focus on
a certain market.
Um whether that's microreactor for
remote or SMRs for data centers or very
large gigawatt scale for the grid.
Um and SMRs I think ultimately have the
plan of being cheaper than the gigawatt
scale construction projects for the
grid.
But there's many reactors that are
trying to solve the reactors cost out of
it.
And the question's going to be is their
energy production cost low enough?
But for these advanced reactors
it's not just a fuel avail- availability
problem and question, it's a cost
question. It's the fuel can be half of
their total cost and I think long-term
enrichment will be half of the fuel
cost. For General Atomics specifically,
I'd love to hear at three levels how
you're thinking about building this
thing. The product level, the business
level, and then the company itself. So,
starting with the product, how have you
figured out what the market wants or
needs? Obviously, there's your you're
enriching uranium. Uranium's the key,
you know, fuel source for these
different, you know, these different
parts of this taxonomy for creating
energy. But, how do you know there's
lots of different kinds of your of
things that you could provide to your
customer? What has the journey been like
to figure out what the actual product is
going to be? This goes all the way back
to understanding the fuel cycle or the
fuel supply chain for for nuclear. So,
there's five steps.
You mine uranium out of the ground. You
then convert it into a gas.
You then enrich it.
You then deconvert it back into a solid.
And the enrichment step is really
refining step, a separation step.
Then you turn it back into a solid, and
then you form fuel pellets. Five steps
to go from ore in the ground into a
little pellet into a fuel rod that goes
into a reactor.
Um the US has good capability across the
board except in enrichment. It's the one
area that we don't have any
commercial scale capability. There's
some R&D capability, but nothing that's
commercial scale or commercially
competitive with Russia and Europe.
And so,
we decided let's hone in on the
enrichment step. That's the bottleneck.
That's the thing that's leading to these
nuclear what we call the nuclear fuel
cliffs. Where there's three cliffs.
Cliff one
is
the HALEU supply chain. This is the same
problem we heard from all the SMR
companies. We don't have a source of
HALEU.
Um HALEU is the fuel that they need.
HALEU is uranium that's enriched to
about 20% U-235, which is the fissile
material.
They want it enriched a little bit
higher to 20%
because it helps the reactor be smaller.
So,
that's the first cliff is HALEU for
advanced reactors. They have none if
there's no reliable supply in the next
few years, it's going to make it very
difficult for them to scale up.
So far, they they have small amounts
from the DOE to prove that that their
reactors work the way they think they
will and to do first deployments, but
not to scale to where it really moves
moves the needle on the grid.
The second nuclear cliff, the nuclear
fuel cliff, is 2028 when the US's ban on
Russian uranium imports goes into full
effect, January 1st, 2028.
Uh we are
through act of Congress no longer
allowed to import Russian uranium.
At that point Enriched uranium
specifically or or or both? We will not
be we will not be importing
uh
enriched uranium from Russia or uranium
from Russia, which
the only place we get it enriched is
Europe and Russia and today Russia is
about 25% of US
imports and so 20 25% immediately goes
away in 2028.
And so utilities in the US will then
start eating into their
uh inventories
and trying to work out deals to import
more from Europe. But cliff one is
HALEU, 20%, cliff two is LEU, low
enriched uranium
at 3 to 5% enrichment. And then at some
point in the future the US stockpile of
enriched uranium for propulsion for the
Navy and eventually that runs out. And
so there's these cliffs. We're focused
on the nuclear energy side of it, LEU
and HALEU, and that's what we're going
to be producing. We realized, "Hey, the
most urgent cliff
that we need to address as soon as
possible is HALEU for advanced
reactors."
And coincidentally
this is the the small market. This is
the emergent market that we can go after
that we don't think any incumbent will
go after on the same time frame as us
and we can serve those advanced reactor
customers that we've known for years and
make sure that they have the HALEU that
they need to deploy and scale their
reactors.
Um that's where we're starting and then
phase two is going to LEU production,
low enriched uranium for
the 94 reactors on the grid today and
supply them with the fuel that they
need, which today in the US is a
two two and a half billion dollar
market.
What's the relationship between this
kind of enrichment and a more weapons
oriented type of enrichment? Yeah, so
all enrichment is
for the most part the same.
It's if you think of it again as like a
refining process or a a distillation
process,
um you're just refining it further.
Ultimately, the product that we make is
enrichment services and you can run with
material through from natural uranium as
it comes out of the ground and you can
run it through an enrichment process to
get to any arbitrary level of
enrichment.
The commercially relevant ones are LEU,
3 to 5% for existing reactors, or HALEU,
20% for advanced reactors.
And so when we set out to do this, we we
said, "Hey, HALEU is what the market
needs most right now."
And we set out pre-Russia ban, so there
was no LEU cliff. Yeah.
And we said we're going to develop
enrichment capability to serve that
market.
And the fundamental unit of enrichment
capability is it's just the ability to
do this refining. It's measured as
something called separative work units
in the enrichment field.
And we will provide that service and
we'll sell that service to utilities and
advanced reactors to get them the fuel
that they need. So, ultimately, the
product that we developed is enrichment
and you can apply it to either of those
levels. Uh to your question on
how is that different from weapons
grade, when you see countries going to
weapons grade, they're they're often
trying to go north of 20%, which is the
internationally agreed limit to where
you go to weapons grade.
For non-proliferation reasons, there's
strong international consensus that we
should all just stay below 20. There's
not really the risk is not worth the
reward to let people go higher.
You see countries going to 60% saying
that it's for their nuclear
you know, energy industry and it's it's
pretty suspect. I think clearly they're
just trying to get as close as they can
to weapons grade, which is
well over 90%
and they're trying to develop weapons.
And so um ultimately it's not different
technology, but it's applied in a
different way and in a completely
non-international consensus setup.
>> Is the percentage Is there a way to
think about that like purity or
something? Yeah, there's U-238, there's
U-235 as it comes out of the ground.
There's other isotopes also, but um the
main one's U-238 and you basically want
to
filter that out to get U-235. And U-2
U-235 is the isotope that wants to wants
to react. That's the fissile isotope.
What do we know about the like the stock
of ore in the world or the just like the
raw element? We've got yeah, certainly
hundreds of years
of supply in the ground. US has supply.
We have active mining in the US.
Canada has even more supply, higher
grade ores.
Um enough to supply us for a very long
time. Same as Australia. And then um
Kazakhstan's a a huge deposit. And US
imports from there as well. So on the on
the ore side, not an issue. How do you
build a great business on top of this
product? Is it so easy just because
there's so much latent demand for it
from these this new segment or are there
other considerations? I wouldn't say
it's so easy at all. I and I think the
latent demand has not been obvious for a
long time
un- until until the last couple of
years. So any any large latent demand I
think is
in the last 24 months linked to the
thought that there's going to be a lot
more data centers doing AI inference or
training jobs.
And
but if you go before that there wasn't a
lot of new nuclear being talked about.
There was need for HALEU, but that's a
pretty small market.
And so
I think a lot of people have thought
that this is not really something where
we need new capacity. If you go back to
the 2010s,
uh really no new capacity building
anywhere in the 2010s. And um certainly
not for LEU production, certainly not
for HALEU,
just cuz it's been emergent so recently.
So
I think the fact that this is a growing
market is
you know, we're still betting on that in
many ways. It's not the case that we're
currently deploying tons of new reactors
in the US, but we think that's coming.
And then so I think the market we
believe in deeply. I don't know that the
entire industry
believes that the demand is there.
They've been
through nuclear renaissances before that
didn't pan out, and I think their point
of view would be
we'll build it when we know that there's
a need.
Um
at least that's been the attitude of
many people that we've talked to.
On the ease of doing this, it's still,
you know,
it's it's a proven thing. People have
done this before, but it's still not
easy. I'd say you see some of these like
retro technologies that were done in the
past, and then we lost a lot of the
capability cuz we didn't do it for so
long.
And so for enrichment, um
you know, there's it's been an industry
without a lot of change since really the
'90s. Not a lot of progress, not a lot
of leveraging of new technology.
And so there's a lot of doing the hard
engineering work to get back up to speed
to modern.
Um and then
even once that's done, there's, you
know, you're building facilities that
are a million square feet and large,
large, you know, multi-billion-dollar
infrastructure projects.
And so in the same way that like maybe
building the first Tesla Roadster was
hard,
but the real challenge was how do you
scale this up?
I think it's extremely underappreciated
how
much goes into standing up a huge
industrial facility. And I think that's
actually the hard part. How do you think
about like the North Star metric for the
business? Like if I equated to SpaceX
the cost per kilogram to orbit or
something like that. It's like a really
cool thing to visualize over time.
What's your chart going to look like?
What's the metric?
Yeah, so they had cost per kilo to orbit
and specific to a like really to a
specific orbit of lower orbit. And you
can actually decompose the orbital piece
into a velocity.
So it's almost like cost per kilo to
some velocity.
Our version is cost per kilo of uranium
not of a payload
to some enrichment level.
Um and so it's like
cost per kilogram to 3 to 5% or to 19%.
Which can be described as
cost per separative work unit where
separative work unit is the industry
measure
of enrichment where it's basically kilos
times some
um entropy reduction or separation or
organization of the material. And so a
separative work unit is
typically referred to as
uh kg SWU kilos times separative work
units.
And so our our North Star metric is
dollars
per kilo SWU. And is that does that map
onto the value creation cycle of your
customer? Like is that the is that input
cost the key determinant of their
success as a business? It is. Yeah, so
depends the importance depends on what
type of reactor you're running. Right.
So if you're doing a gigawatt scale
classic
you know, AP1000 light water reactor
that uses 3 to 5% enriched fuel
low enriched uranium LEU
then the cost of that fuel as a percent
of your overall cost is quite low. It
doesn't really matter.
What you want is availability. You want
reliability. You want diversity of
suppliers. You want to know that they're
going to be there. And you don't want
them,
you know, overly concentrating and and
creating supply risk for you.
But the cost of the fuel is not a huge
input into
um your your cost of electricity, your
LCOE.
Most of that's going to be CAPEX for
your huge, you know, $10 billion
project.
Um so for them it doesn't matter that
much.
But for advanced reactors it matters a
lot. So some of some advanced reactors
the cost of the fuel, the HALEU fuel
that goes into it, enriched further to
19.75%,
which requires more input material to
refine it all the way there as you
filter through more and more and more
material,
that fuel can be more than half of their
energy production cost.
And so to them it does matter a lot. And
the way that they that that fuel has
been purchased in the industry so far,
which maps directly onto our Northstar
metric, is a five different services.
A utility purchases uranium and then it
purchases upgrades to the uranium as it
goes through the supply chain. So it's
really a tolling business where you buy
they own license to the material and
it's book transfers all the way through
and they are paying different people per
unit of service provided
um to to do their work. And so the
service that they provide to us is
priced in dollars per SWU
and
if you look at the actual cost structure
of producing fuel all the way through,
for low enriched maybe enrichments
you know, a little bit less than a
third, but it's one of the largest cost
segments.
For HALEU it's even more. And and we
think it's going to be the dominant cost
driver of of fuel cost. So back to
talking back to the Founders Fund stuff
we were talking about at the beginning,
you sort of have found the highest cost
segment of the workflow
sold to the highest percentage of the
cost um new customer that's emerging
that's small that you can go own. And
that's how you then ultimately build a
great business is by driving all of that
through like the all this force through
kind of the narrowest possible
choke point.
>> Yeah, if you want if you want to put it
in in investment terms and like business
>> Yeah. business strategy terms, that
would be it, but it's um,
I think if you go back to the very
beginning, it just turned out that this
was the thing that was most necessary.
This was like this step of enrichment
was why we didn't have the more enriched
fuel that advanced reactors needed. And
you realized the US had lost the ability
despite being the number one in the
world during the '80s by far. And it was
something it was something we were
extremely good at and we completely
stopped doing it and that this
bottleneck was going to be the
bottleneck to all of nuclear energy if
you believed in advanced nuclear energy.
And this is the thing we had to solve.
So,
we did it because no one was doing it
and it was extremely important and
urgent and I think that ended up
corresponding to this like very good
entry point for the market. But I think
the two are really linked. I don't I
don't think it was coincidence
that if you're solving a problem that's
urgent that no one else is doing on a
small but emerging market, it it will
completely fit that framework. And then
the final step is building a great like
a great enduring company, by which I
mean not just a flow of cash flow, but a
collection of people and a set of
impacts on the country. How do you think
about the the most important things you
can do starting now to build a great
company? And like what does that mean to
you? You've invested in many great
companies. Like what is a great company
on top of a good product and a stream
of, you know, cash flow? It comes back
to the team. Um, I think Naval has said
this a bunch of times. Like the team you
build is the company you build. And so
to us it's team DNA. We want people, you
know, we thought about where do we put
the company? This was a big question at
the very beginning.
And
you know, you look at who you actually
need on the team.
And of course you need nuclear
engineers,
but you also need great
mechanical engineers, electrical,
software, chemical, like every type of
engineering. And so, you ask yourself,
well, where do we want to put the
company?
And it turns out the number of the
percent of the team that's nuclear
engineers is
single digits.
You don't need We're not doing a
reactor. There's actually no nuclear
reactions in our process. We need to
make sure that there's no nuclear
reactions, but to do that, you don't
need a huge number of nuclear engineers.
And so,
there was this question of do you go to
where the nuclear engine engineers are,
or do you go to where all those other
types of engineers are?
And
you know, on on dimension one, the
nuclear engineers, you don't need that
many of. You need great ones, though.
Where are we going to find them? And you
look at where they are in the country,
and they're just scattered everywhere.
There's no one place to go.
And so, we had to go with the other
option. You go to where all the other
engineers are, specifically hardware,
aerospace,
and that's Southern California. And so,
the team DNA that we wanted to set up
was
this is an engineering-driven company.
We're not doing a science project. No
new physics.
No going down a multi-year R&D path
that's uncertain.
We need to get this operational as fast
as possible. This is an engineering
problem. Everything we have to do has to
be thought of as engineering. We're
engineering cost out of the system.
We're engineering performance up. We're
engineering cost of capital down. We're
going to do We're We're engineering
schedule to be as tight as possible.
We're even engineering our own
buildings. Like this is taken from the
the Tesla playbook. Don't hire a GC and
outsource everything. You lose total
control. The schedule could be
it's not in your hands anymore.
You need to build your own in-house
engineer, procure, construct EPC firm as
a team to go run your construction
projects because it's one of the hardest
things about this is
not just engineering, not just
manufacturing, but actually construction
of millions of square feet on schedule,
on budget. And so,
the whole DNA of the company is oriented
around drive to deliver for the industry
as quickly as we can while being safe,
um reliable, like every other dimension
you would want subject to those
constraints. Go quickly because the
industry needs it.
Don't have analysis paralysis. Don't
deliberate over things that don't
matter.
Let's get a service live that can
deliver for the US industry, and then
let's bring the cost down over time. And
so, everything's oriented around
schedule and cost.
How do you run the company? Like
literally your time as one of the key
inputs into this everything you just
described happening or not?
You've watched a lot of vertically
integrated companies that that own a
process end to end do that really really
well.
How are you running the thing? Like if I
were to follow you around for a week,
what would it look like?
Yeah, it changes over time. So,
I my my strong preference is internal
facing. And so, to really be there
helping to do the work internally.
Right now we're in a phase of of company
building and team building, and so we're
rapidly hiring. So, a lot of my days
right now is interviewing people. I'm
the last step in the interview, and what
I'm screening for is does this person
not just have the skills, which have
already been screened for at that point,
but do they have the attitude of
you know, they care about this problem.
They know that there's lots of places
that that that they could work, but this
may be the only place that they can work
on this problem in a in a private
company.
And
they know that there's probably places
that they could potentially go make more
salary, that they could have an easier
job, a more predictable schedule. But,
we're trying to do this mission that
requires us to go as quickly as possible
and to deliver before end of decade for
both
the advanced reactor industry and the
existing reactors on the grid, which is
like 20% of our grid.
And this is going to be a lot of late
nights, weekends, like just working as
hard as we possibly can.
And is that something that they've done
before?
Is that something they like doing? Do
they know what they're signing up for?
Um are they really motivated by this?
Those are things I'll typically screen
for subject to everything else being
already verified. And so a lot of my day
right now is trying to make sure we have
the right early people on the team to
build the right culture for them to then
go recruit and hire the next people.
It's not just the team you build is the
company build you build, but the the
early team you build is the company you
build, which
is actually what drives a lot of my
external facing stuff is we got to get
the word out to the right people so they
know what we're working on, they know
why this is important, why this is the
bottleneck to scaling nuclear and to
scaling energy in the country,
um and why they they should join our
team.
How do you reason through the what
seemed to me like illogical uh data uh
data-free fears that people have about
nuclear in general? You you started to
address them earlier around just the
amount of waste is actually quite small.
I think it fits in like this room or
something, some something crazy. The bad
events that we can call to mind,
Chernobyl and Three Mile Island,
were bad, but if you dig into the data,
it seems like nuclear is very safe. But
these fears really do seem to be the
reason why we don't have a lot more of
it.
And what what matters is reality, not
the data.
Um so how do you how would you like
pitch people on not being worried about
these things so we can get over this
problem? You're pointing out kind of the
difference between acute and chronic
sort of events. And I think acute events
that are very attention
attention-worthy, people remember those.
And the things that are just low-level
in the background, people don't think
about even if
>> every day.
>> Car crashes, like all these things
um I think are just
Yeah, you can you can think of it in
terms of catastrophic events like that.
You can think of it in terms of your
health and
you know, what are we chronically doing
that's unhealthy that's taking its toll
versus acute things that take their
toll. I think people have a strong bias
towards that, but often it's
you know, the right thing is to look at
the data. I don't think most people find
that compelling. I think the more
compelling thing
in nuclear for me is
think of a world in which we are not
constrained by energy,
and we won't be constrained because we
can all agree that it's good because
it's base load,
it's very affordable, it's going to
bring down your rates,
um it's safe and it's clean,
and we can, you know, we can debate
those and we can look at the data, but
let's imagine
that future world in which we have all
those things.
I think the way to make nuclear really
compelling to people is actually to
check the final box, which is cost.
And so, again, going back to why have we
not had more nuclear? The schedule to
bring it online for the large
gigawatt-scale projects has been
uncertain, the costs are often above
what's projected,
and
when you look at the total package, it's
not cheaper than coal, it's not cheaper
than natural gas, it's not cheaper than
hydro, so why do we want this? And I
think if you told someone, "Okay, try
like nuclear is safe, we can we can dig
into that." Understood you're not
interested if it's more expensive.
Why would you be?
But what if it's cheaper? What if your
What if your utility bill got cut in
half?
I think people would suddenly find that
extremely compelling for something that
could be
tens of miles away from their house and
still powering powering their
powering powering the grid. To bring it
back to where we began the conversation,
why do you think there are not more
founders funds and more founders
pursuing some,
you know, radically different, very
unique
vision for the future. It doesn't seem
like there's many of these people.
There's only one found
More investors have kind of taken on
this mantle of
um big big contrarian unique projects, I
suppose. But why are there not more of
each? It seems so strange. It's all case
by case, even for Founders Fund. It's
not It's not a programmatic thing that
Founders Fund has tried to do.
It's almost the opposite of that. It's,
you know, Founders Fund recruits for
people that want to be investors that
don't want to be entrepreneurs. If they
want to be entrepreneurs, they should go
be entrepreneurs. And the two roles are
extremely different. If, you know, if
for people that have done both, they
realize how different operating it is is
than investing. And so, Founders Fund
explicitly selects for people that want
to be investors.
And yet, once in a while, a company will
start just cuz it's
it almost feels like a disservice not to
start it. So, in this case,
decade plus of investing, been all of
the reactor companies. They all see the
same problem. No one's doing it. And
then the you look at the final thing of
like, okay, important problem, no one's
doing it. Maybe I can do it. And you
look at what what it takes to actually
go do that, and you realize, wait, my
background is really aligned with that.
If I don't do this, then, you know, if
the goal is to have an impact on the
world, and we can have positive impact
through investing, but a much greater
impact through starting this specific
company,
then it's it's actually wrong to not go
do that. And so, it's almost like
there's a desire to not start companies
like full stop. And then only with
extreme exceptions will we start them.
And so, I think if it's an extreme
exception, it it makes sense that it
doesn't happen that often. Now, why
don't most people do that? I think
um you know, the investing life is is
probably far better than the operator
life. And so, it's it's like
>> explained it set that way so far? I
mean, I I like what we're doing a lot,
but in terms of quality of life, it's
it's not as good. I think any any
entrepreneur would tell you that the the
quality of life is not as good. I think
once you start a company, you're really
like,
you know, you're taking the harness and
you're latching on. Like, whatever it
is, you have to go do. It's It's not
optional.
If you're an investor and, you know, a
deal comes across your plate, but
I'm a little bit too busy. I've got I've
got enough over here I got to work on.
It is easy to let that one go and not
have to not have to do that work. I
think when you're running a company
there's stuff that comes up that you
just have to deal with and you have to
take care of it or it's going to be a
problem. Now,
that's also a function of the time
horizons of of each job. So, I think
when you're operating, you can see the
feedback cycle very quickly.
As an investor, that company that you
might have just chosen to not meet with
to preserve quality of life, that could
be the next great company. And so, you
might not realize that you're not doing
well until 5 years from now when you
don't have that return from that
company.
And so, you know, some people are just
wired a certain way like even in the
investing
role, I would take
10 meetings a day like to the point of
definitely diminishing returns, but want
to work hard and make sure you see
everything. I think
I think the other thing about investing
when properly understood is that you
actually don't need to invest in that
many companies. And while you can brute
force it and boil the ocean and try and
meet everyone and try and be extremely
helpful to everybody,
all that it ultimately matters is a few
companies per vintage and you just have
to be into those. And so,
certainly as a VC much more than even
private equity or hedge funds, as a VC
you don't actually
have to work that hard meeting
everybody. You can dive in as much as
you want into specific companies and
value add and help them and be their
preferred investor.
But, it is not
a job of labor. It's really a job of
ideas and thinking. And so, the quality
of life of
being surrounded by smart people talking
through ideas and thinking, I think can
be a lot more comfortable than rolling
up the sleeves and diving in. Well, I
for one I'm glad that you're now working
on the problem that you're working on.
It seems enormously high leverage and I
certainly hope that the future that you
might enable is the one that we get to
see. I think there's very little
arguments against more cheaper cleaner
energy. So, an incredible project. When
I do these interviews, I ask everyone
the same final question. What is the
kindest thing that anyone's ever done
for you? There's maybe the recent
example that's like completely linked to
this conversation is the transition from
Founders Fund to General Matter. And you
know, you have to say, "Okay, well, what
was this thread that led led me here?"
And I think it it goes all the way back
to like being recruited into Founders
Fund by Peter and then support through a
decade of investing. And then as I
wanted to go shift focus to this,
total support for doing that. Obviously,
Peter like tried to beat up the idea and
make make sure it's good, but being
along for that journey and then
ultimately joining our board as one of
very few boards that he's on was
uh yeah, really appreciate that.
>> the hardest part about him beating up
the idea? What was like the hardest
aspect to get through? Um it was
probably all the all the abstract like
layers of um meta-level questions of
just even going back to the fact of like
we haven't had any new nuclear in a long
time. Why is that? Is nuclear just
regulated to death?
Is the regulation a thing that's meant
to stop it like basically make it
illegal? And so all these questions of
like, "Why why is it really the case
that we're going to get more nuclear
now?"
And I think it was that that challenging
of this that really forced us ask a lot
of hard questions that we feel great
about our answers to like even when you
asked of
"Are you dependent on every SMR, you
know, succeeding to make a real market?"
On the HALEU side, yes, the HALEU
production ultimately
will be SMRs that create that demand.
Um but to make HALEU,
you have to make LEU.
And
And our technology works on LEU also,
and we'll be building LEU capacity. And
so there's this,
you know, 2 billion plus US market and a
similar size market in our allied, you
know, partners
um that we can sell into. And so there's
this known good market and and so you
work through questions like that when
being challenged on what if nuclear
doesn't grow? And it's like, well, worst
case, there's an existing market and we
can start a business there and time is
then on our side for when and if nuclear
grows, which we think it will grow very
rapidly,
um we're in a good position. And a lot
of these conversations that I had with
Peter were 2023 Yeah.
>> before the AI data center boom. And so
now it's extremely obvious why we need
this.
>> Yeah, in a good position. Scott, this
has been so much fun. Thank you so much
for your time. Yeah, thank you.
Your finance team isn't losing money on
big mistakes. It's leaking through a
thousand tiny decisions nobody's
watching. Ramp puts guardrails on
spending before it happens. Real-time
limits, automatic rules, zero
firefighting. Try it at ramp.com/invest.
As your business grows, Vanta scales
with you, automating compliance and
giving you a single source of truth for
security and risk. Learn more at
vanta.com/invest.
Ridgeline is redefining asset management
technology as a true partner, not just a
software vendor. They've helped firms 5x
in scale, enabling faster growth,
smarter operations, and a competitive
edge. Visit ridgelineapps.com
to see what they can unlock for your
firm.
Every investment firm is unique and
generic AI doesn't understand your
process. Rogo does. It's an AI platform
built specifically for Wall Street,
connected to your data, understanding
your process, and producing real
outputs. Check them out at
rogo.ai/invest.
The best AI and software companies from
OpenAI to Cursor to Perplexity use
WorkOS to become enterprise ready
overnight, not in months. Visit
workos.com to skip the unglamorous
infrastructure work and focus on your
product.